#summary Brief documentation on installing twistedae.
#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy,Phase-Requirements

= Before you install =

== Python interpreter ==

It is possible to run twistedae's Python parts with Python 2.5.x and 2.6.x, but
is recommended to use a version which is supported by the Google App Engine
SDK. See http://code.google.com/intl/de/appengine/docs/python/overview.html for
further information.

== Google App Engine SDK ==

You don't have to install the Google App Engine SDK, because
[http://pypi.python.org/pypi/zc.buildout zc.buildout] will install it for you.
Only the Python interpreter is needed. See
http://code.google.com/intl/de/appengine/docs/python/overview.html which Python
version is supported by the Google App Engine SDK.

It is advisable to install twistedae into a
[http://pypi.python.org/pypi/virtualenv virtualenv] in order to obtain
isolation from any “system” packages you’ve got installed in your Python
version.

== Other requirements ==

Most of the required libraries and programs will be installed by zc.buildout.
See the [http://code.google.com/p/twistedae/source/browse/trunk/buildout.cfg
buildout.cfg] file.

The buildout needs Python and the tools contained in /bin and /usr/bin of a
standard installation of the Linux operating environment. You should ensure
that these directories are on your PATH and following programs can be found:

 * Python 2.5.2+ (3.x is not supported!)
 * gcc and g++
 * make

= Installation =

 * Check out the sources:
  {{{
  $ svn checkout http://twistedae.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ twistedae
  }}}

 * Build the stack:
  {{{
  $ python bootstrap.py
  $ ./bin/buildout
  }}}

 * Configure the demo application:
  {{{
  $ ./bin/apptool parts/demo/
  }}}

 * Let the cloud fly:
  {{{
  $ ./bin/supervisord
  }}}

 * Access the application using a web browser with the following URL: http://localhost:8080/

 * Run the supervisor console:
  {{{
  $ ./bin/supervisorctl -c etc/supervisord.conf -u admin -p admin
  }}}

When all services are up and running, the supervisor console shows something
like this:
  {{{
  appserver                        RUNNING    pid 91685, uptime 0:02:01
  memcached                        RUNNING    pid 91683, uptime 0:02:01
  mongod                           RUNNING    pid 91684, uptime 0:02:01
  nginx                            RUNNING    pid 91686, uptime 0:02:01
  }}}
